What is Git?
Git is open-source version control software, used for managing and tracking file revisions. You can use Git with any file type, but it’s most often used for tracking code files.

What is Git platform home

Git is the most widely used version control system in software development, and GitHub leverages this technology for its service, hence its name.





What is version control?
You’ve likely worked with some form of version control before. For example, Google Docs (as well as other Google Workspace tools) has a "Version History" tool where you can view changes to the document at different points in time. Microsoft Office has something similar with its "Track Changes" feature. Or, you might prefer saving multiple copies of a file and labeling them "v1", "v2", etc.

Advanced version control is necessary for software projects, especially collaborative ones.


What is Github?

GitHub is an online software development platform. It's used for storing, tracking, and collaborating on software projects.
It makes it easy for developers to share code files and collaborate with fellow developers on open-source projects. GitHub also serves as a social networking site where developers can openly network, collaborate, and pitch their work.




How does Git Hub Work?
GitHub users create accounts, upload files, and create coding projects. But the real work of GitHub happens when users begin to collaborate.

While anyone can code independently, teams of people build most development projects. Sometimes these teams are all in one place at once time, but more often they work asynchronously. There are many challenges to creating collaborative projects with distributed teams. GitHub makes this process much simpler in a few different ways.
First, all the code and documentation are in one place. This limits issues with access for anyone who wants to contribute to a project. Each repository also contains instructions and other details to help outline project goals and rules.

Next, coding is more creative and abstract than most non-technical people think it is. For example, say two devs are working on different pieces of code. These two pieces of code should work together. But sometimes one piece of code can make the other code fail. Or a piece of code can have an unexpected impact on how the other code works.

GitHub solves these problems by showing how both files will change the main branch. It catches these errors before pushing changes, making the coding process more efficient.

GitHub also makes it easier to track changes and go back to previous versions of a project. To explain this, we’ll need to understand the technology that GitHub is based on, Git, and talk about version control.

How does GitHub work?
GitHub facilitates social coding by providing a hosting service and web interface for the Git code repository, as well as management tools for collaboration. The developer platform can be thought of as a social networking site for software developers. Members can follow each other, rate each other's work, receive updates for specific open source projects, and communicate publicly or privately.

The following are some important terms GitHub developers use:

Fork. A fork, also known as a branch, is a repository that has been copied from one member's account to another member's account. Forks and branches let a developer make modifications without affecting the original code.
Pull request. If a developer would like to share their modifications, they can send a pull request to the owner of the original repository.
Merge. If, after reviewing the modifications, the original owner would like to pull the modifications into the repository, they can accept the modifications and merge them with the original repository.
Push. This is the reverse of a pull -- a programmer sends code from a local copy to the online repository.
Commit. A commit, or code revision, is an individual change to a file or set of files. By default, commits are retained and interleaved onto the main project, or they can be combined into a simpler merge via commit squashing. A unique ID is created when each commit is saved that lets collaborators keep a record of their work. A commit can be thought of as a snapshot of a repository.
Clone. A clone is a local copy of a repository.


Working with Git Branches
In Git, a branch is a new/separate version of the main repository.

Let's say you have a large project, and you need to update the design on it.

How would that work without and with Git:

Without Git:

Make copies of all the relevant files to avoid impacting the live version
Start working with the design and find that code depend on code in other files, that also need to be changed!
Make copies of the dependant files as well. Making sure that every file dependency references the correct file name
EMERGENCY! There is an unrelated error somewhere else in the project that needs to be fixed ASAP!
Save all your files, making a note of the names of the copies you were working on
Work on the unrelated error and update the code to fix it
Go back to the design, and finish the work there
Copy the code or rename the files, so the updated design is on the live version
(2 weeks later, you realize that the unrelated error was not fixed in the new design version because you copied the files before the fix)
With Git:

With a new branch called new-design, edit the code directly without impacting the main branch
EMERGENCY! There is an unrelated error somewhere else in the project that needs to be fixed ASAP!
Create a new branch from the main project called small-error-fix
Fix the unrelated error and merge the small-error-fix branch with the main branch
You go back to the new-design branch, and finish the work there
Merge the new-design branch with main (getting alerted to the small error fix that you were missing)
Branches allow you to work on different parts of a project without impacting the main branch.

When the work is complete, a branch can be merged with the main project.

You can even switch between branches and work on different projects without them interfering with each other.

Branching in Git is very lightweight and fast!

New Git Branch
Let add some new features to our index.html page.

We are working in our local repository, and we do not want to disturb or possibly wreck the main project.

So we create a new branch:

Example
git branch hello-world-images
Now we created a new branch called "hello-world-images"

Let's confirm that we have created a new branch:

Example
git branch
  hello-world-images
* master
We can see the new branch with the name "hello-world-images", but the * beside master specifies that we are currently on that branch.

checkout is the command used to check out a branch. Moving us from the current branch, to the one specified at the end of the command:

Example
git checkout hello-world-images
Switched to branch 'hello-world-images'
